So watchers are good for
asynchronous updates and updates and
transitions with data changes.
And part of the reason why I
explained all that to you is so
that you know how all of those
things are tracked and rendered.
So what's gonna happen is we're gonna
watch any data property that we created.
So if we have this counter of 0, and
we increase this,
we're gonna watch this counter.
So unlike in compute computed properties,
where we have a different name for
a different type of data and
those have to be different.
We're going to declare
something that's the same.
We're gonna say we're gonna watch this and
console log every time it's changed.
So if I go into my console,
if I increase this counter,
every time I hit that button,
the counter has changed,
the counter has changed.
So basically what we're doing is we're
hooking into that reactivity system that
we just talked about.
And we're saying,
anytime something is changed,
that we've that something that
in that effect has been changed,
please let us know something or
please let us do something with that.
Or please let us,
create a new function or something.
So it gives us a little layer
to start to intercept and
interacts with that
change in this property.
We also have access to the new value and
the old value.
Remember how I talked about how that hover
state, it's like the moment that you start
hovering, the time then it's hovering
in the end state of the hovering value.
This is kind of similar to that.
We have a watched property.
We have the access to the new value,
of course.
But we also have access to the old value.
So if you wanna do things that,
check between the differences of things,
like let's say you wanted to animate
the state between two things in a data
visualization, which I'll
show you in a little bit.
Then you can totally do that in here.
So you could say,
watch watched property, new value and
old value, your dope code here.
And we can also gain
access to nested values.
So let's say we have an object.
And we actually wanna watch
something inside of that object,
we can say deep true.
And then we say nested watch property,
new value, old value.
And that's the same.
So if we go back to this counter,
we've got this counter
where we're able to update.
What we're console logging
here is the new value,
we passed in the new value and
the old value this time.
And we say the counter has changed.
It was old value it is now new value.
So I opened this up, In here, and
I say the counter is changed,
it was 0, now it's 1.
It was 1, now it's 2.
It was 2, now it's 1.
So this is the simplest
example I can show you.
But it actually allows you to do
lots of different pieces here.
So let's say we wanted to make
a virtualized scroller or
something like every time we get to
the bottom of the page, we wanna watch for
the state of the bottom of the page.
So that we can add more
things from an API.
Let's go into the code pen for a moment.
Let's open it actually
in a whole new window.
We are gathering beers from this API.
And if we go here into our View tab.
We see an array of a few
objects that we've gotten.
And we say bottom is false.
And then anytime the bottom is true,
it's gonna add,
it's gonna call out to the API and
get more beers.
It's just gonna call and
get more, and more beers.
And these are all beer
appended to that array.
So we've got that all
from this punk beers API.
Because if you're gonna drink a lot
of beer when you run out of beer,
you need more beer.
That's just obvious, right?
So we've got this bottom
is false right now.
We've got this empty beers array.
And what we're doing here is we're
going to at first listen for
we're gonna use a created lifecycle
method, which I'll explain in a minute.
But basically, what it allows us to do
is to say as soon as this component
is created, start listening on this
window event listener for scroll.
And this dot bottom calls
this top bottom visible.
Remember when I said that you can call
a method from a lifecycle hook or
something else.
So we have access to this
method called bottom visible.
It's this stop bottom visible.
And in here,
we're evaluating the scroll height, right?
We're returning whether or not we've hit
the bottom of the page where we're gonna
say, whether or
not the bottom of the page is visible.
We also have this method called add beer,
where we reach out to the punk API.
We grab a bunch of things.
And we, assign them to API info and
we push that this dot
beers dot push API info.
So we've got this empty array,
we're gonna add beers.
Anytime we add a beer,
we're gonna push on to that array.
And if this.bottomvisible
calls this.addbeer,
the same for the watch,
we're passing in a new value.
If this is true, if the new value
is true of the bottom is visible,
then we add a beer.
So now we're able to add some
punk beers as soon as we
get to the bottom of the page.
So as we said, here,
we're watching this bottom is false.
We're seeing if it turns into
something else, some other value.
And here we've got the created that,
starts to add the beers as soon
as the component is mounted.
We're checking if the bottom is visible.
And then we add a beer.
And the add beer is calling out to axio.
It's using axios to get more beers and
push it on.
Now and
this is the HTML that it takes to do this.
Of course,
we're using a v-for beer and beers.
I also have this v-if here.
I'm gonna say if there's no length to
the beers array show this loading thing.
But we're on a pretty fast connection.
So it didn't have to show that.
But that's a good thing to note for
if you're waiting on an API,
you might wanna show like
a little loader and stuff.
You probably don't wanna always
implement this yourself.
There's a great library called
vue-virtual-scroller, and
it helps if I spell it correctly.
And then it actually goes to the repo.
So we it's by a guy named Jim
who's actually on vue core team.
He made a really great virtual
scroller that has lazy parts of it.
It's blazing fast.
It's really wonderful.
And he has this great demo here.
So if you need to use a virtual scroller,
I strongly suggest that.
I also mentioned that you could change
data sets based on these watchers, right?
I have the first dataset second dataset.
And it doesn't matter if I
started from the third and
I go to the first it's still able
to transition between those bars.
SVG is really good for
this because it's built with math.
I love SVG for this reason,
I can build all sorts of things.
And indeed, this graph is not
using D3 to build the graph.
I'm you just using view
directives to create this graph.
So if I look over here what I mean
by that is I can make some computed
properties as well,
that have the max length of things and
a max range of things so
that I can make my axes.
And this probably looks
like number garbage to you.
[LAUGH] But really, it's using
SVG to build all of these pieces.
If you wanna learn more about
how SVG works with the DOM.
And how to build things with SVG,
I have another course that's advanced SVG,
on front end masters that you can
learn some of these premises.
But if we look through this watch,
what I'm doing is I'm looking at
the selected, whatever is selected.
And I have I create a dummy object
that will get updated by GSAP,
which is an animation library.
I have an update function that is
invoked on each tween step we'll
use this to push the data.
We create an object to hold
the source data to be tweaked and
the function pointer for update events.
We turn we go in this for loop we
turn the current index into a string.
And then we tween over, because that's
what Green Talk will expect from us.
And then we're tweening over
our target dummy object.
But only for this specific key.
So then we're able to kind of
look between those values.
And I have a couple more examples here.
So again,
we're watching that selected value.
And we're able to go between them.